William Tell, by Friedrich von Schiller, Penguin Reader's Level 1, Scene 1, in Outdorf, Switzerland.
This is an important day.
We're going to meet with Governor Gessler.
We can't be late.
Our Austrian emperor and his governors don't understand the Swiss people.
We aren't Austrians, we're Swiss, and we love our country.
And we don't want to give our money to Austria.
Here's one of Gessler's soldiers.
It's time.
Let's go in and talk.
Gessler must understand our problems.
What do you want now?
You Swiss people come here every day with a new problem.
Our problems aren't new.
You never listen to us.
Things are difficult in Switzerland these days.
Difficult? I don't understand.
Your soldiers are always watching us.
Every day you put a new tax on us.
There are taxes on our food, our houses, and our animals.
How can we live with these taxes?
Perhaps you can't, but I can live very well with them.
And the emperor is happy with them too.
But we're very unhappy.
We don't want to be Austrians.
We're Swiss.
Please listen to us.
Your Austrian emperor is very good to you.
But you don't understand him.
That's right, and he doesn't understand us.
This is our country now.
Go home.
Listen to me and to the emperor.
Or things are going to get very dangerous for every Swiss man, woman, and child.
Go.
I don't want to talk to you.
My time is important, and you are not.
What did the governor say?
Is he going to send his soldiers back to Austria?
Is he going to stop putting taxes on us?
Did he understand our problems?
No. He didn't listen to us.
What can we do?
Can we stop this man?
Perhaps we can.
But first, we must find a hero.
A Swiss hero.
Scene two. At a river in the Swiss mountains.
I'm going home now.
Look, it's going to rain.
Get my boat from the river.
It's getting cold.
And the water looks dangerous.
Winter's coming.
Good night, Rudy.
Wait. Look. Who's coming?
I know that man.
It's Conrad Baumgarten.
Help me, my friends.
Boatman, quick.
Take me across the river now.
Or I'm a dead man.
Please.
What's the problem?
Who wants to kill you?
Guessler's men.
They're coming. Quick.
Why are they looking for you?
I killed one of the governor's tax men.
I was at work.
Away from home.
The man came to my house.
He asked my wife for water.
And then he wanted hers.
My wife came to me for help.
I went home quickly.
And then I killed him with my knife.
You did well.
Rudy, quick.
Take him across the river in your boat.
I can't.
The river's moving very quickly.
And the rain is heavy.
No boat can go across the river now.
Rudy, you must help this man.
He has a family.
I have a wife and three sons too.
Look at the river. It's dangerous.
I want to help, but I can't.
And I'm dead.
A man is coming.
Oh, it's William Tell.
Good evening, my friends.
What's wrong here?
Bound Garden killed one of the governor's tax men.
The soldiers are looking for him.
But our boatman can't take him across the river.
The river's dangerous. Look at it.
But Bound Garden can't wait here.
What can we do?
There's my boat, and there's the river.
You can take the boat and be the hero.
I'm going to stay here.
Bound Garden.
Let's go quickly.
Bernie, send my love to my family.
Scene three.
At Stalfucka's home.
Your story isn't new.
The emperor's governors, his Austrian soldiers,
and his tax men make new problems for us every day.
Kessler is playing games with our country.
We don't want to kill people.
We don't want to fight.
We're men of peace.
But what can we do?
Let's find a number of good, strong Swiss men.
We must stop these Austrians.
I'm going to visit Walter first tomorrow.
He loves our country.
He can help us.
We must fight for our country.
Let's start now.
Yes, we must help our country.
But can't we find peace?
I'm going home.
My family are waiting.
But remember, you can always ask for my help.
Scene four.
Hello.
You're the famous governor, Kessler.
Am I right?
You're right.
And who are you?
My name's William Tell.
I'm a hunter, and I'm Swiss.
That's interesting.
But I haven't got time for you.
I'm an important man with important work in my life.
Why do I want to talk to you?
Because this is my country.
You're making problems for us with your taxes and your soldiers.
The people of this country are very unhappy.
Wait.
William Tell.
I want to talk to you.
Because this is my country.
You're making problems for us with your taxes and your soldiers.
Well, I know about you.
You helped Baumgarten.
Yes, but Baumgarten is a good man.
He killed your tax man because the man was dangerous.
Aren't you a dangerous man too?
Don't you always have a crossbow with you?
Don't you go into the mountains every day and kill?
I kill animals.
I put food on my family's table.
I don't kill people.
Can your soldiers say that?
I haven't got time for your talk.
Move.
Now.
Why?
It's not late.
Please.
Listen to me.
You and your taxes are bad for Switzerland.
We don't want you here.
But I am here.
And I'm going to stay.
This is a new Switzerland.
And you must listen to us.
And you must understand the Swiss people.
We love our country.
Our mountains and our families.
We want peace.
And we're going to fight for it.
Watch us.
Scene five.
At William Tell's home.
You're going to have problems with Gessler now.
Why?
I talked to him.
I didn't hit him.
But he's going to remember you.
He's going to make problems for us.
Wait and see.
I'm a man of peace.
I'm going to stay away from Gessler now.
Please do that.
Where are Valta and Wilhelm?
They're in the garden.
They're playing a game.
Look at them.
They're little soldiers.
William, this isn't good.
My sons aren't going to be soldiers.
I want peace in my country and in my family.
I understand, Hedwig.
Our sons are going to be hunters.
But one day, our country is going to want soldiers too.
At that time, every man, woman and child must fight for Switzerland.
William, can't you go to the Emperor?
Can't you and your friends talk to him about peace?
Yes, we're going to try.
Father, are we going to outdoor now?
Yes, my son.
Have you got your crossbow?
Why is he taking his crossbow?
I'm a hunter.
I want to teach my son about the mountains and about hunting.
He's a good student.
But the mountains are dangerous for a young boy.
We're mountain people.
This country isn't dangerous for us.
I'm going to watch Valter and teach him.
And why are you going to outdoor?
We're going to visit your father.
I want to talk to him.
My father and his friends want to start a fight.
Please don't go William.
You're a man of peace.
I must go.
I must help Switzerland too.
But guesslers in outdoor today.
He doesn't like you.
Stay at home and go tomorrow.
No.
I must go today.
Let's go Valter.
Valter mustn't go.
Please.
He can stay with me.
I want to go with Father.
I want to see the town and the people.
Hedwig.
He's going to be okay with me.
Scene six.
In Alstorf.
Switzerland has an Austrian emperor and Austrian taxes.
But the Swiss people are always a problem.
Hmm.
What problems can I give them today?
Give them a new tax.
No.
There was a new tax yesterday.
You stopped games on Saturdays and Sundays too.
And you closed the cafes.
You can stop all music after six o'clock in the evening.
Yes.
Very interesting.
But I'm thinking.
What?
What can you do?
Ah.
There's a tall thin tree in front of my office.
Bring me one of my old hats.
Now put the hat on the tree.
Then I want to talk to the people.
People of Switzerland.
You can see a hat on the tree in front of you.
Why is it there?
Can you think?
We don't know.
Is it important?
It's very important to you.
You all love me and your emperor.
Is that right?
What did she say?
She's happy.
That's all.
You can't see me every day because I have a lot of important work.
But you can stop every day and look at my hat.
You can send your love to the emperor and to me too.
Oh God.
Our love.
How can we love a hat?
All the Austrians.
Must we stop for your old hat?
Yes.
All of you must stop.
My soldiers are going to be here every day.
They're going to watch you.
Scene seven.
In front of the tree with the hat.
People aren't going to walk here.
They don't want to stop for a hat.
Perhaps they don't love the emperor and his governor.
But it's only a hat.
It's not on the emperor's head.
I don't want to make problems for people.
But this is our job.
Look.
A man and a boy are coming.
Let's watch them.
Father, does every country have tall beautiful mountains?
No, son. Switzerland is famous for its mountains.
We Swiss understand them.
And I'm going to teach you.
Look, Father, why is there a hat on that tree?
I don't know.
But it's not important.
Let's go.
Stop.
In the name of the emperor of Austria, stop and look up at the hat.
No.
Why?
No questions.
Come with us.
What are you talking about?
You're coming with us.
To prison.
I don't understand.
What's the problem here?
Stop.
This man is from my family.
What's the problem?
He didn't stop for the hat.
He doesn't love the emperor.
Friends, look at this.
Do we want a hat on a tree in our streets?
Is this an emperor?
You can't take William Tell away.
He's a man of peace.
Don't take Tell.
The governor is coming.
Is there a problem here?
Yes, governor.
This man and his son didn't stop for your hat.
We're taking them to prison.
But the people of the town are with him, not us.
Is the hat important?
I'm sorry, governor.
But there's no problem.
This afternoon, tomorrow, and every day I'm going to stop and look up at your hat.
I want peace in our store.
And in all of Switzerland.
William Tell.
You're a difficult man.
And you have your crossbow with you again.
My father can hit an apple on a tree from a hundred feet with his crossbow.
Can he?
Soldier, bring me an apple.
Good.
Tell.
Take your son to that tree across the street and put this apple on his head.
Then take your crossbow and walk away.
Hit the apple and you and your son can live.
On my son's head.
No father can do that.
Kill me now.
No.
Do it.
You and your crossbow are famous.
Boy, stand near the tree and wait for your father's arrow.
Governor, stop.
Take my money and my house.
But don't kill Tell and Walter.
I'm going to be okay.
Father can hit this apple.
There's no problem.
Tell.
Wait.
Your hand is moving and your eyes are swimming in your head.
Don't play this man's games, Governor.
Kill me.
Not my son.
I want to watch you with your crossbow.
Do it.
Father, you can do it.
I'm going to be okay.
Yes.
You can do it, Tell.
You're a hero.
Tells our man.
We don't want that hat on the tree.
Tell.
Hit the apple and go home.
Look.
Your son is waiting.
You can do it, Father.
They did it.
Look, Father.
I'm okay.
I'm not dead.
Every Swiss man, woman and child is going to hear about William Tell.
He's our hero.
Tell could hit an apple.
Or a soldier.
Walter, William, let's go to my house.
Come with me.
Stop.
I want to talk to Tell.
Yes, Governor.
Good job, Tell.
But where's your second arrow in my shirt?
Why did you have a second arrow?
It was for you.
A dead governor for a dead son.
But now the arrow can stay in my shirt and I can go home.
Goodbye.
An arrow for me.
Soldiers, take him to prison.
He's not going to walk away from me.
No.
Wait.
He's a good man.
He's a man of peace.
He's our hero.
You're a very bad man, Governor Gessler.
I'm not going to kill you, Tell.
But you're dangerous.
I'm going to put you in prison.
In Kusnacht.
I don't want you and your crossbow on these streets.
Soldiers, take him to my boat.
Scene eight.
On the governor's boat.
Why is Tell important to the governor?
He's very good with the crossbow.
And he's a hero to the Swiss people.
The governor doesn't like it.
But the Swiss people love him now.
Look at this rain.
It's very dangerous on the water.
Where's our hero now?
We're never going to arrive at Kusnacht.
Where's my boat, man?
Here I am, Governor.
What's wrong?
And when are we going to arrive?
The rain's very heavy, Governor.
And the water's dangerous.
I'm not a strong man.
I'm having problems with the boats.
Soldiers, help the boat, man.
What do they know about boats?
Get some help.
Now!
The prisoner tells good with boats.
Bring the prisoner to me.
Tell!
Help us with this boat.
How can I help you?
Look at me.
I'm a prisoner, not a boatman.
You're not a prisoner now, tell.
Boatman, here's your helper.
Here we are!
Soldiers, take tell to the prison.
What? Prison?
No.
I'm going to take my crossbow and say goodbye.
Where did he go?
He helped us.
And now he's going to help his people.
He is a hero.
Stop him!
In Anstoff, he wanted to kill me.
But we can't see him.
But I can see you.
Oh no.
The governor's dead.
Where's Tell?
He's in the mountains now.
We can never find him.
Let's take our dead governor to his house in Kursnach.
Scene 9, in a street in Anstoff.
William, you're back!
How did you get away from Gessler and his soldiers?
They helped them with their boat on a very bad night.
Then I killed the governor.
Yes.
Now things are going to be good again in our country.
Gessler's dead.
But we must finish Tell's work.
We must send the Austrians back to their home.
Let's start our fight today.
Tell your our hero.
Can you help us again?
Of course I can.
Every Swiss person is going to fight for their country.
Many years from now, our children's children are going to talk about our fight.
He's Gessler's hat.
What can we do with that?
Do we want it?
Put it in the river.
Send it to Austria!
Wait!
Let's put it in an important place.
Let's look at it every day and remember Gessler.
Let's say never again.
Switzerland is for the Swiss.
Yeah.
But isn't the emperor going to look for you?
Isn't he going to come here with his soldiers?
Yes.
Gessler was his friend and one of his governors.
But we're strong.
And we can stop the soldiers.
We can wait for them in the mountains.
We must listen to William Tell.
You're right.
But wait.
Who's coming?
It's Staufacher.
Listen.
The emperor is dead.
What?
How?
When?
Many Austrian people didn't like Gessler or the emperor.
The emperor was on the road to Baden here in Switzerland.
Some Austrians stopped him and killed him.
Then they went back to Austria.
This is a good day for our country.
Now, we've got an important job.
We must build a strong Switzerland.
We can have peace now.
Goodbye, my friends.
I'm going home to the mountains and to my family.
Thank you, William.
Switzerland is always going to remember you.
You're our hero!
William Tell!